[MUSIC]
Welcome to the logical functions module.
In this module,
we will learn some simple and
very useful functions Excel offers
to evaluate conditional logic.
The functions we will cover in this module
are a subset of the logical functions
provided by Excel.
We will share references to where you can
learn more about logical functions in
Excel as part of the materials
provided with this module.
We encourage course participants to study
these powerful functions independently to
master their use as they are foundational
building blocks in spreadsheet analysis.
Let's review the functions we
will cover in this module.
The CountIfs function allows you to count
the number of occurrences of a value
in a range based on specific criteria.
It takes as parameters the range in
which you wish to count values and
the criteria against which to apply to
those values in order to make the count.
The SumIfs function allows
you to sum values in a range
based on specific criteria.
SumIfs takes, as parameters, first
the range of values which you care to sum.
Then, arrange with values you'd like
to apply criteria against when summing,
and lastly criteria to
apply against this range.
You'll note that you can feed any
number of criteria ranges and
criteria into SumIfs,
which makes it quite powerful.
The IF function allows you to compare
different values or variables and
return a specified value depending
on the outcome of that test.
The test must be structured as
a boolean or true or false test.
If no outputs are specified, the function
will return true if the test is true and
false, if the test is false.
IF requires, as parameters,
firstly the logical test,
then the value if that test is true and
lastly the value if that test is false.
Combining And with the If function
allows multiple logical tests in
evaluating values in a data set.
It is useful when we want to do something
only if all of our tests are true and
if we want to do something else
if any of our tests is false.
Each function within the And function
must be structured as a boolean test.
You can't simply list
the values being compared.
The And function itself can be
nested to run more advanced tests.
We'll talk more about If and And
in conjunction as we work through
the problems of this modular.
Combining the If + Or
functions allows multiple logical
tests in evaluating a data set.
This is useful when we want to do
something when any of the tests is true
and something else when all
of the tests are false.
Each function within the OR function
must be structured as a unique test.
You can't simply list
the values being compared.
And again, we'll come back to
specific examples of using If and
Or during the problem sets for
this module.
Lastly, combining, or nesting,
multiple If functions
can be a powerful way to evaluate
chains of conditional logic.
We can think of this as If a given
test is true, then do this.
Otherwise, If our first test is true and
another test is true,
then do something else.
Otherwise, because none of
the previous tests is true and
then do this other thing.
Nested If functions can incorporate
additional formulas as parameters.
We'll unlock some of the powerful uses for
nested If functions as we work
through the problems in this module.
Let's begin with the spreadsheet
accompanying this module.
Before we dig into the exercises
associated with the module,
let's take a moment to explore the data
set underlying all these problems.
You see here that we have 11 columns and
just over a hundred or so
records that comprise sales records for
a fictitional company
across sales channels for their various
products throughout a period of time.
One important thing to note about this
dataset is that it is structured formally
as an Excel table.
One thing this provides us is convenient
references when referring to data
in that table.
Rather than using column letters and row
numbers, we can use the name of the table,
and special syntax,
to refer to the names of each column.
These special references
are called structured references.
We will provide additional
reading material for you, so
that you can learn more
about this feature in Excel.
Structured references and
named ranges in general,
significantly increased
the readability of our spreadsheets.
We encourage you to incorporate these
in your own spreadsheet analysis.
[MUSIC]